[DOC] Add fail processor documentation (#5980)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _ingest-pipelines/processors/fail.md

---
layout: default
title: Fail
parent: Ingest processors
nav_order: 100
---

# Fail processor

> The `fail` processor is useful for performing data transformations and enrichment during the indexing process. The primary use case for the `fail` processor is to fail an indexing operation when certain conditions are met.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `fail` processor is useful for performing data transformation and enrichment during the indexing process. The primary use case for the `fail` processor is to fail an indexing operation when certain conditions are met.
```

> The `fail` processor can be useful for performing data transformations and enrichment during the indexing process. The primary use case for the `fail` processor is to fail an indexing operation when certain conditions are met.

Reviewer 2: "Can be" useful or "is" useful?

> The `fail` processor can be useful for performing data transformations and enrichment during the indexing process. The primary use case for the `fail` processor is to fail an indexing operation when certain conditions are met.

Author: ```suggestion
The `fail` processor is useful for performing data transformations and enrichment during the indexing process. The primary use case for the `fail` processor is to fail an indexing operation when certain conditions are met.
```

The following is the syntax for the `fail` processor:

```json
"fail": { 
  "if": "ctx.foo == 'bar'", 
  "message": "Custom error message" 
  }
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

## Configuration parameters

The following table lists the required and optional parameters for the `fail` processor.

> Parameter | Required/Optional | Description |

Reviewer 2: Nit: I would just say "Required" in the second column, since its a little cleaner on the table, though it looks like the other processor docs follow the same convention here.

|-----------|-----------|-----------|

> `message` | Required | Custom error message to be included in the failure response.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`message` | Required | A custom error message to be included in the failure response.
```

`description`  | Optional  | A brief description of the processor.  |  
`if` | Optional | A condition for running the processor. |  

> `ignore_failure` | Optional | Specifies whether the processor continues execution even if it encounters errors. If set to `true`, failures are ignored. Default is `false`. |  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`ignore_failure` | Optional | Specifies whether the processor continues execution even if it encounters an error. If set to `true`, then failures are ignored. Default is `false`. |  
```

`on_failure` | Optional | A list of processors to run if the processor fails. |  
`tag` | Optional | An identifier tag for the processor. Useful for debugging in order to distinguish between processors of the same type. |  

## Using the processor

Follow these steps to use the processor in a pipeline.

### Step 1: Create a pipeline

The following query creates a pipeline, named `fail-log-pipeline`, that uses the `fail` processor to intentionally fail the pipeline execution for log events: 

```json
PUT _ingest/pipeline/fail-log-pipeline  
{  
  "description": "A pipeline to test the fail processor for log events",  
  "processors": [  
    {  
      "fail": {  
        "if": "ctx.user_info.contains('password') || ctx.user_info.contains('credit card')",  
        "message": "Document containing personally identifiable information (PII) cannot be indexed!"  
      }  
    }  
  ]  
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> ### Step 2 (Optional): Test the pipeline

Reviewer 2: What would be a reason why someone wouldn't test a pipeline? In other words, what makes this step optional?

Author: This is the template. Leaving as written. They can bypass testing if they choose. It's not necessary if they are confident it'll work.

It is recommended that you test your pipeline before you ingest documents.
{: .tip}

To test the pipeline, run the following query:

```json
POST _ingest/pipeline/fail-log-pipeline/_simulate  
{  
  "docs": [  
    {  
      "_source": {  
        "user_info": "Sensitive information including credit card"  
      }  
    }  
  ]  
}  
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

#### Response

The following example response confirms that the pipeline is working as expected:

```json
{
  "docs": [
    {
      "error": {
        "root_cause": [
          {
            "type": "fail_processor_exception",
            "reason": "Document containing personally identifiable information (PII) cannot be indexed!"
          }
        ],
        "type": "fail_processor_exception",
        "reason": "Document containing personally identifiable information (PII) cannot be indexed!"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

### Step 3: Ingest a document 

> The following query ingests a document into an index named `logstash-logs`:

Reviewer 3: Change the index name to `testindex1` to make it consistent with the name in the query.

```json
PUT testindex1/_doc/1?pipeline=fail-log-pipeline  
{  
  "user_info": "Sensitive information including credit card"  
} 
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

#### Response

> The request will fail to index the log event into the index `testindex1` due to the intentional failure in the pipeline. The response will include the custom error message specified in the fail processor.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The request fails to index the log event into the index `testindex1` due to the string `credit card` being present in `user_info`. The following response includes the custom error message specified in the fail processor:
```

> The request will fail to index the log event into the index `logstash-logs` due to the intentional failure in the pipeline. The response will include the custom error message specified in the fail processor.

Reviewer 3: Same to above, change to `testindex1 `.

```json

  "error": {
    "root_cause": [
      {
        "type": "fail_processor_exception",
        "reason": "Document containing personally identifiable information (PII) cannot be indexed!"
      }
    ],
    "type": "fail_processor_exception",
    "reason": "Document containing personally identifiable information (PII) cannot be indexed!"
  },
  "status": 500
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

### Step 4 (Optional): Retrieve the document

> Since the log event was not indexed due to the pipeline failure, attempting to retrieve it will result in a document not found error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because the log event was not indexed due to the pipeline failure, attempting to retrieve it will result in a document not found error:
```

> Since the log event was not indexed due to the pipeline failure, attempting to retrieve it will result in a document not found error.

Reviewer: Should "document not found" be specially formatted as the name of the error?

---
layout: default
title: Fail
parent: Ingest processors
nav_order: 100
---

# Fail processor

The `fail` processor can be useful for testing and debugging log ingestion pipelines. It allows you to intentionally fail the pipeline execution and observe the behavior or error handling mechanisms in your log ingestion and analysis systems. This can help you identify and resolve issues related to pipeline configuration, data transformation, or other aspects of log processing.

The following is the syntax for the `fail` processor:

```json
"fail": {
  "message": "Custom error message"
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

## Configuration parameters

The following table lists the required and optional parameters for the `fail` processor.

> Parameter | Required/Optional | Description |

Author: @gaobinlong Will you add the parameters? Don't worry about polishing the writing, I'll handle it. I just need the information. Thank you :)

|-----------|-----------|-----------|
`message` | Optional | Custom error message to be included in the failure response.

## Using the processor

Follow these steps to use the processor in a pipeline.

### Step 1: Create a pipeline

The following query creates a pipeline, named `fail-log-pipeline`, that uses the `fail` processor to intentionally fail the pipeline execution for log events: 

```json

> PUT _ingest/pipeline/fail-log-pipeline

Reviewer 3: ```
PUT _ingest/pipeline/fail-log-pipeline
{
  "description": "A pipeline to test the fail processor for log events",
  "processors": [
    {
      "fail": {
        "if": "ctx.user_info.contains('password') || ctx.user_info.contains('credit card')",
        "message": "Document containing personally identifiable information (PII) cannot be indexed!"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

{
  "description": "A pipeline to test the fail processor for log events",
  "processors": [
    {
      "grok": {
        "field": "message",
        "patterns": ["%{COMBINEDAPACHELOG}"]
      }
    },
    {
      "fail": {
        "message": "Intentionally failing the pipeline for testing"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

### Step 2 (Optional): Test the pipeline

It is recommended that you test your pipeline before you ingest documents.
{: .tip}

To test the pipeline, run the following query:

```json

> POST _ingest/pipeline/fail-log-pipeline/_simulate

Reviewer 3: ```
POST _ingest/pipeline/fail-log-pipeline/_simulate
{
  "docs": [
    {
      "_source": {
        "user_info": "Sensitive information including credit card"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

{
  "docs": [
    {
      "_index": "test-fail-pipeline",
      "_id": "1",
      "_source": {
        "message": "127.0.0.1 - - [23/Apr/2023:11:59:59 +0000] \"GET /sample.html HTTP/1.1\" 200 612 \"-\" \"Mozilla/5.0 (X11; Linux x86_64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/51.0.2704.103 Safari/537.36\""
      }
    }
  ]
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

#### Response

The following example response confirms that the pipeline is working as expected:

> ```json

Reviewer 3: ```
{
  "docs": [
    {
      "error": {
        "root_cause": [
          {
            "type": "fail_processor_exception",
            "reason": "Document containing personally identifiable information (PII) cannot be indexed!"
          }
        ],
        "type": "fail_processor_exception",
        "reason": "Document containing personally identifiable information (PII) cannot be indexed!"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

{
  "docs": [
    {
      "error": {
        "root_cause": [
          {
            "type": "fail_processor_exception",
            "reason": "Intentionally failing the pipeline for testing"
          }
        ],
        "type": "fail_processor_exception",
        "reason": "Intentionally failing the pipeline for testing"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

### Step 3: Ingest a document 

The following query ingests a document into an index named `logstash-logs`:

```json

> POST logstash-logs/_doc/?pipeline=fail-log-pipeline

Reviewer 3: ```
PUT testindex1/_doc/1?pipeline=fail-log-pipeline
{
  "user_info": "Sensitive information including credit card"
}
```

{
  "message": "127.0.0.1 - - [23/Apr/2023:11:59:59 +0000] \"GET /sample.html HTTP/1.1\" 200 612 \"-\" \"Mozilla/5.0 (X11; Linux x86_64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/51.0.2704.103 Safari/537.36\""
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

#### Response

The request will fail to index the log event into the index `logstash-logs` due to the intentional failure in the pipeline. The response will include the custom error message specified in the fail processor.

> ```json

Reviewer 3: ```
{
  "error": {
    "root_cause": [
      {
        "type": "fail_processor_exception",
        "reason": "Document containing personally identifiable information (PII) cannot be indexed!"
      }
    ],
    "type": "fail_processor_exception",
    "reason": "Document containing personally identifiable information (PII) cannot be indexed!"
  },
  "status": 500
}
```

{
  "error": {
    "root_cause": [
      {
        "type": "fail_processor_exception",
        "reason": "Intentionally failing the pipeline for testing"
      }
    ],
    "type": "fail_processor_exception",
    "reason": "Intentionally failing the pipeline for testing"
  },
  "status": 500
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

### Step 4 (Optional): Retrieve the document

Since the log event was not indexed due to the pipeline failure, attempting to retrieve it will result in a document not found error.

```json

> GET logstash-logs/_doc/_search

Reviewer 3: `GET testindex1/_doc/1`

```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

#### Document error example

> ```json

Reviewer 3: ```
{
  "_index": "testindex1",
  "_id": "1",
  "found": false
}
```
